---
layout: post
title: Node.js & MongoDb - Design Patterns
author: 77ganesh
tags:
---

Each language and database has its own design patterns. I often see Javascript programs written with a Java-ish mindset, and MongoDB data modelling done with RDBMS mindset.

Following are what I consider important while programming with Javascript.

# #1 Undersand what it means to be asynchronous

In Javascript, almost every function is aysnchronous or non blocking. 

```js
const axios = require('axios')
let data = axios.get('https://example.com')
console.log(data)

// Output
// Promise { <pending> }
```

Here the program doesn't wait at `axios.get()` for the function to complete. No function ever blocks the control flow, and returns immediately.

# #2 Async control flow

Just because Javascript is asynchronous doesn't mean that you can't do things sequentially. Control flow techniques are just different, not complicated.
In fact you will find that this is very convinient for doing tasks parallely.

## 2.1 Callbacks

It is absolutely essential to understand callbacks first before anything else .

Callback is just a function passed as an argument to another function. It is named so because once the operation is completed, the callee function invokes the callback function which was passed as an argument.

```js
const fs = require('fs')

function callback (err, data) {
  console.log(data)
}

fs.readFile('sample.txt', callback)
```

Instead of defining a named function, we can also define a function in the argument section of fs.readFile() itself.

```js
fs.readFile('sample.txt', function (err, data) {
  console.log(data)
})
```

## 2.2 Promise

## 2.3 async/await

## 2.4 EventEmitter

## 2.5 Streams

## 2.6 RxJs Observables

## 2.7 caolan's async module

## 2.8 generators/coroutines

## And others...

# #3 The prototype

Javascript has a more elegant way to deal with Object Oriented Programming without `class`, `interface` or the dreaded diamond inheritance problem.

## 3.1 Vehicle

## 3.2 String.protoype

## 3.3 Getters/Setters

# #4 The closure

# #5 Single Threaded

